# Run the code in chrome

# S1L2
- Snippets section

# S2L3
Use of 'strict' keyword
- Strict context

"use strict";
var name = "PrS";
name2 = "PrS2";

//Reference Error name2 is not defined

var foo = 1;
delete foo;

In non strict mode, we are allowed to delete it, but in non strict mode it will not allow us to
delete.


-
var a = 2;
eval("var a = 1"); // eval executed the javascript code written in string.
console.log(a); // 1

In strict mode output will be 2. 'a' inside eval is not exposed outside.


# S2L4
- Pass by value or pass by ref. Objects are pass by ref. Strings, numbers, boolean are pass by values.

Try:
var a = 1;
function foo(a) {
  a = 2;
}
foo(a);
console.log(a); // Pass by value;

var a = { value: true };
function foo(a) {
  a.value =  false;
}
foo(a);
console.log(a)

Another Example:-
"use strict";
var a = 1;
var b = {};

function foo(x, y) {
  x = 2;
  y.moo = 3;
}

foo(a, b);
console.log("a = " + a + "; b = " + JSON.stringify(b));

# S3L5
Types in javascript - 5 primitive types and 1 non primitive type
PT:  Boolean Number String Undefined Null
NPT:  Object

" Primitive have value, non-primitives have reference, this is the main difference "

typeof(null) - Object

Dynamically Typed Lang and statically typed language

Java - Static type. We have define the type of the variable.

null and undefined. Both indicate absence of value in other lang.
JS Engine will never set null for you. Only Programmer will set a variable to null.
var a;
console.log(a);   //undefined

null and undefined are actually the values in js. typeof(undefined) is "undefined"

null == undefined // true. So both the values are actually same but their type is diff.

# S3L6
==(value) and  === (type and value)

0 == ''   // true
0 == '0' // true

0 === ''   // false
0 === '0' // false

Type conversion
0 == '0' // true
String(0)

false == 'false' // false
true == 'true'   // false

# S3L7
NaN
type(NaN) // 'number'

NaN == NaN

Try:
isNaN(1)   // false
isNaN("1") // false
isNaN("A") // true => Number("A") = NaN
NaN == NaN // false This only happens in the case of NaN

var a = NaN;
a !== NaN // true
a == NaN // false


# S4L8 Scopes
In Js there is no block level scoping. Only function level scoping.

function print() {
  var b = 1;
}
print();
console.log(b); // Reference error

Two scopes: - Global scope and function scope

# S4L9 Variable Hoisting

foo();
function foo() {
  console.log(a);
  var a = 1;
}

// foo function will be available. function will move to the top of the scope
// output is undefined;

# S4L10 scope chain

Lexical scope chain

function foo() {
  console.log(myVar);
}

function goo() {
  var myVar = 1;
  foo();
}

//ReferenceError: myVar is not defined

This error came because myVar variable is not declared above the function declaration. This is lexical nature. What is the order of the code on the page it matters.

# S4L11 IIFE
  * Immediately invoked function expression

In Main.js

var thing = {
  'hello' : 'main'
}

In Other.js

var thing = {
  'hello2' : 'other'
};

The thing object in global scope will be corrupted. Becz other.js is loaded after main.js.

(function(){
  var thing = {
    'hello2' : 'other'
  };
  console.log(thing);
})();

# S4L12 closures.

- closures can refer to variables outside in which it is defined. It can refer to the outer scope variables and functions.

function sayHello(name) {
  var text = "Hello " + name;
  return function() {
    console.log(text);
  }
}

var myName = sayHello("Prashant");
myName();

var foo = [];
for (var i=0; i < 10; i++) {
  foo[i] = function() { return i };
}
// Here the closure created does not point to the copy of i but the actual i.
//  So by the time the loop exists, the value of i is 10.

console.log(foo[0]()); //10
console.log(foo[1]()); //10
console.log(foo[2]()); //10

var foo = [];

for (var i=0; i < 10; i++) {
  (function(){
    var y = i;
    foo[i] = function() { return y };
  })();
}

console.log(foo[0]()); //0

* Write the similar function in the similar way:-

var foo = [];

for (var i=0; i < 10; i++) {
  (function(y){
    foo[y] = function() { return y };
  })(i);
  console.log(i);
}

#-----------------------------------

(function f(n){
  return ((n > 1) ? n * f(n-1) : n);
})(4); // 24

(function(x) {
  return (function(y) {
    console.log(x); //1 == Search will be in the outer scope. The value will be 1.
  })(2)

})(1);

#-----------------------------------

function loo() {
  var goo = 1;
  moo();
}

function moo() {
  console.log(goo);
}

loo();

// Reference error because moo function does not have any knowledge of goo. Because it does not see either in its inner or in its outer scope.
The scope chain lookup rules follow how the code is written on the page. The moo function doesn't see the goo variable either in it's local or outer global scope so the javascript engine throws an error.

#-----------------------------------


var salary = "1000$";

(function () {
  console.log("Original salary was " + salary);
  var salary = "5000$";
  console.log("My New Salary " + salary);
})();

//The var salary in the IIFE is hoisted to the top of the function scope, so that means that salary //is set to undefined by the time the first console.log is run
